---
title: Application of F-test method on model order selection and related problems
excerpt: 2015 Master's thesis.
date: 2015-08-26
tags:
    - en
    - f-test
    - thesis
header:
    overlay_image: /assets/images/publication/yazar2015application-promo.png
    overlay_filter: 0.5
    teaser: /assets/images/publication/yazar2015application-promo.png
aytype: thesis
---

[Access to the thesis](https://hdl.handle.net/11511/24893)

**Yazar, A.** (2015). Application of F-test method on model order selection and
related problems [M.S. - Master of Science].

```bibtex
@mastersthesis{yazar2015application,
  title={Application of F-test method on model order selection and related problems},
  author={Yazar, Alper},
  year={2015}
}
```

# Abstract

Signal modeling is one of the important topics of signal processing area. The
input signal should be modeled with a suitable mathematical model first. In
statistics related disciplines, there are information theory based criteria for
model order selection topic. In this thesis work, F-test based methods are
proposed on model order selection and related problems. F-test is used in
statistics related disciplines. However, it is not so widely used in signal
processing related problems. Solution approaches for signal processing related
problems based on known F-test are contributions of this thesis work. This work
is focused on signals in linear spaces. Fundamentally, F-test is a test of
significance. It is used to test whether a signal model is sufficient to model
the signal of interest or higher order models are needed. This test is made by
using two nested models with different orders. RSS (Residual Sum of Squares)
values are calculated for each model and they are compared using F-test.
According to the test result, it is determined that whether the lower order
model is almost good as the higher order model or the higher order model
improves the accuracy significantly. The proposed method is basically an
iterative application of F-test. It selects the suitable model order by applying
F-test many times. In this work, some problems related with model order
selection topic are solved using F-test based approaches. An analysis window
length selection method for zero-crossing point estimation problem using line
fit is proposed as the first example. Secondly, a method is proposed for the
segmentation of multi tone signals. Similar approach is given as the third
example for segmentation of FM signals. As the fourth example, a number of pole
selection algorithm is proposed for all-pole signal modeling using Prony's
method. Lastly, a segmentation method for damped sinusoidal signals with Prony's
method is proposed. Simulation results are provided for each five problems.
